---
draft: false
link: "https://landing.flagship.shop/"
location: "San Francisco, CA"
pubDate: "2024-03-01T08:00:00.000Z"
tags: ["job"]
title: Flagship - Technical Leader
referrer: Recruiter
---

### About [Flagship](https://landing.flagship.shop/)

Imagine a world where online shopping is a breeze, not a brain-buster. That's what we're cooking up at Flagship. Did you know 40% of US consumers turn to creators, influencers, or experts to spice up their lives with fantastic finds? Well, we believe it's high time those creators took the retail reins. And that's where Flagship swoops in – a platform for creators to curate their own online stores, brands to find the best content creator for their unique business and consumers to find their next favorite products. This will require infrastructure that the creator economy has never experienced before!

### Our Mission

We're not just a startup; we're a movement! Backed by the heavyweights at Sequoia Capital, Index Ventures, and other industry maestros, Flagship is here to shake up the multi-trillion-dollar industry. We're giving content creators the keys to the retail kingdom.

### About the Role

If you're all about building with the customer in mind, have a sixth sense for product greatness, and are itching to level up your technical leadership game – you're our kind of maestro! We're reinventing how entrepreneurs and creators drive the shopping experience, all from the comfort of their phones. Just a heads up – this party is happening in our San Francisco office; we're all about that in-person magic for our eng team, so no remote vibes here.

### I'm interested

Reach out to me (email in the footer), and I'll connect you to the recruiter.

Notes:

- There's only a headcount open right now for folks that are Senior + in their career. 
- They should have headcount for folks earlier in their career around the summer months is the recruiter's assumption.
