---
draft: false
pubDate: "2024-07-18T19:35:51.884Z"
tags: ["ideas", "websites"]
title: "Single Purpose Websites"
---

[Simon Willison](https://simonwillison.net/2024/Jul/13/give-people-something-to-link-to/)'s post - [Give people something to link to so they can talk about your features and ideas](https://simonwillison.net/2024/Jul/13/give-people-something-to-link-to/)

> I evangelize this tool _a lot_, but OpenAI really aren’t helping me do that. I end up linking people to [my code-interpreter tag page](https://simonwillison.net/tags/code-interpreter/) because it’s more useful than anything on OpenAI’s own site.

Related to: Learn In Public and Working in Public. It helps with the Open Source community in which you open source your knowledge and let people come and collaborate.

> One obvious goal here is SEO: if someone searches for your product feature you want them to land on your own site, not surrender valuable attention to someone else who’s squatting on the search term.

You can drive traffic to this site because people could actually use it. Go back to the tiny web, and not where big corporations ruin the Internet by spamming search engines through SEO.

> I personally value the conversation side of it even more. Hyperlinks are the best thing about the web—if I want to talk about something I’d much rather drop in a link to the definitive explanation rather than waste a paragraph (as I did earlier with Code Interpreter) explaining what the thing is for the upmteenth time!

More links are better. I think Willison's blog is an excellent example of adding curation with links, but let the links stand up for themselves. Also, see [Waxy.org - Andy Baio lives here](https://waxy.org/).

> Give people something to link to!
