---
draft: false
pubDate: "2025-01-10T19:25:14.968Z"
tags: ["recap", "log"]
title: "2024 Log Recap"
---

The final counts are up. We have the following distribution of media for 2024.

| Media         | Count |
| ------------- | ----- |
| 🎥 Movies     | 161   |
| 📺 TV Shows   | 10    |
| 🎮 Video Game | 3     |
| 📕 Books      | 9     |
| 🎤 Musical    | 1     |

Some of my biggest highlights I pointed out in [another post](/blog/2024-12-22-these-are-a-few-of-my-favorite-things/).

I'll leave that here again because it was a really fun list to put down.

- The film that I want to finish: Past Lives (2023)
- The weird film: Poor Things (2023)
- The cringiest TV series: The Curse, Season 1 (2023-2024)
- The book that resonates the most: The Psychology of Money (2020)
- The unexpected book find: Frostbite (2024)
- My RomCom of the year: Upgraded (2024)
- A great TV find: Ramy (Seasons 1 and 2). I still need to watch the 3rd season
- The cry-fest film: Suzume (2022)
- My good 90's find: Go (1999)
- The most intense non-intense film: Challengers (2024)
- Unexpected horro series: The first four Ring movies from Japan. Absolutely better than the American ones.
- Best horror from this year: The Substance (2024)
- RIP Dame Maggie Smith: Gosford Park (2001)
- Hallmark Movie of the year: Sugarplummed (2024)

I'll add in there I also enjoyed Quiz Lady on the plane ride home, although that was on January 1st.

I didn't read enough books this year. They were mainly non-fiction. The highlights were Frostbite and The Golden Thread.

We saw Hamilton this year, our only musical. Totally worth it!

I tried to include video games, although I'm terrible at finishing them. Maybe I should add an "in progress" for some of those because I don't always finish them.

In terms of TV shows, we've enjoyed the new Fallout show. Morgan's really enjoyed Dune Prophecy. I watched all of the Good Place, which was wonderful, and has a bittersweet ending.
